README.md, before:

# Meraki API Exporter for Prometheus
Prometheus exporter to collect some data from Meraki dashboard via API

### Exported metrics
Not all devices exports all metrics.

| metric | unit | description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| meraki_device_latency | seconds | Device latency |
| meraki_device_loss_percent | % | 0 - 100% |
| meraki_device_status | int | 0 - Offline <br> 1 - Online |
| meraki_device_using_cellular_failover | int | 1 - using cellular <br> 0 - using main Uplink |
| meraki_device_uplink_status | int | 'active': 0 <br> 'ready': 1 <br> 'connecting': 2 <br> 'not connected': 3 <br> 'failed': 4 |
| meraki_vpn_mode | int | 1 - hub <br> 0 - spoke |
| meraki_vpn_exported_subnets | int | Subnet exported by the VPN, 1 per subnet |
| meraki_vpn_meraki_peers | int | 1 - reachable <br> 0 - unreachable |
| meraki_vpn_third_party_peers | int | 1 - reachable <br> 0 - unreachable |
| meraki_switch_port_usage_total_bytes | bytes | Total data usage on switch port (uplink ports and AP-connected ports) |
| meraki_switch_port_usage_upstream_bytes | bytes | Upstream data usage on switch port (uplink ports and AP-connected ports) |
| meraki_switch_port_usage_downstream_bytes | bytes | Downstream data usage on switch port (uplink ports and AP-connected ports) |
| meraki_switch_port_bandwidth_total_kbps | kbps | Total bandwidth usage on switch port (uplink ports and AP-connected ports) |
| meraki_switch_port_bandwidth_upstream_kbps | kbps | Upstream bandwidth usage on switch port (uplink ports and AP-connected ports) |
| meraki_switch_port_bandwidth_downstream_kbps | kbps | Downstream bandwidth usage on switch port (uplink ports and AP-connected ports) |connected ports) |
| meraki_wireless_usage_total_bytes | bytes | Total wireless data usage per AP |
| meraki_wireless_usage_sent_bytes | bytes | Wireless sent data usage per AP |
| meraki_wireless_usage_received_bytes | bytes | Wireless received data usage per AP |
| meraki_wireless_bandwidth_total_kbps | kbps | Total wireless bandwidth per AP |
| meraki_wireless_bandwidth_sent_kbps | kbps | Wireless sent bandwidth per AP |
| meraki_wireless_bandwidth_received_kbps | kbps | Wireless received bandwidth per AP |
| meraki_wireless_client_count | int | Number of clients connected to wireless access point |
<<<<<<< HEAD
| meraki_wireless_ap_cpu_load | percent | CPU average load percentage over 5 minutes of wireless access point |
| meraki_device_memory_used_percent | percent | Memory used percentage of the Meraki device |
=======
>>>>>>> 42a2188 (Add wireless count metric to the README)
| request_processing_seconds | sec | Total processing time for all hosts, exported once |

### Labels
All metrics but __request_processing_seconds__ have the following labels:
| label | type | description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| name | string | Device name or MAC address if name is not defined |
| office | string | Network Name (or Network ID if name unavailable) |
| floor | string | Floor name (if device is associated with a floor plan) |
| product_type | string | Product type (e.g., 'wireless', 'switch', 'appliance') |

**meraki_device_uplink_status** also carries the "uplink" label containing the uplink name.

**meraki_switch_port_\*** metrics also carry the "portId" label containing the port ID. Note: Ports tagged with 'uplink' or connected to Meraki APs are exported.


### How to Use
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
You need to provide API Key from meraki portal as argument when starting exporter.<br>
**DO NOT USE KEYS WITH FULL ADMIN PRIVILEGES**<br>
Exporter is listening on port 9822 on all interfaces by default

```
  -h, --help     show this help message and exit
  -k API_KEY     API Key (Required, can also be specified using `MERAKI_API_KEY` environment variable)
  -p http_port   HTTP port to listen for Prometheus scrapper, default 9822
  -i bind_to_ip  IP address where HTTP server will listen, default all interfaces
  --vpn          If set VPN connection statuses will be also collected
  --usage        If set extra usage statistics will be also collected
```
GET request for **/?target=\<Organization Id\>** returns data expected for Prometheus Exporter

GET request for **/organizations** returns YAML formatted list of Organisation Id API key has access to. You can use to automatically populate list of targets in Prometheus configuration.  
```
/usr/bin/curl --silent --output /etc/prometheus/meraki-targets.yml http:/127.0.0.1:9822/organizations
```

**prometheus.yml**
```
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: 'Meraki'
    scrape_interval: 120s
    scrape_timeout: 40s
    metrics_path: /
    file_sd_configs:
      - files:
        - /etc/prometheus/meraki-targets.yml
```
Please check **/systemd** folder for systemd services and timers configuration files, if your system uses it.

### Docker

There is a Docker image available at `ghcr.io/emeraude998/meraki-prometheus-exporter`. You can run the exporter with a command like:

`docker run -p 9822:9822 -e MERAKI_API_KEY=<api key> ghcr.io/emeraude998/meraki-prometheus-exporter`

If you want to pass through flags, you can do so like this:

`docker run -p 9822:<port> ghcr.io/emeraude998/meraki-prometheus-exporter -k <api key> -p <port> --vpn`

Commit message:

Add CPU load metric for wireless access points and update README

README.md, after:

# Meraki API Exporter for Prometheus
Prometheus exporter to collect some data from Meraki dashboard via API

### Exported metrics
Not all devices exports all metrics.

| metric | unit | description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| meraki_device_latency | seconds | Device latency |
| meraki_device_loss_percent | % | 0 - 100% |
| meraki_device_status | int | 0 - Offline <br> 1 - Online |
| meraki_device_using_cellular_failover | int | 1 - using cellular <br> 0 - using main Uplink |
| meraki_device_uplink_status | int | 'active': 0 <br> 'ready': 1 <br> 'connecting': 2 <br> 'not connected': 3 <br> 'failed': 4 |
| meraki_vpn_mode | int | 1 - hub <br> 0 - spoke |
| meraki_vpn_exported_subnets | int | Subnet exported by the VPN, 1 per subnet |
| meraki_vpn_meraki_peers | int | 1 - reachable <br> 0 - unreachable |
| meraki_vpn_third_party_peers | int | 1 - reachable <br> 0 - unreachable |
| meraki_switch_port_usage_total_bytes | bytes | Total data usage on switch port (uplink ports and AP-connected ports) |
| meraki_switch_port_usage_upstream_bytes | bytes | Upstream data usage on switch port (uplink ports and AP-connected ports) |
| meraki_switch_port_usage_downstream_bytes | bytes | Downstream data usage on switch port (uplink ports and AP-connected ports) |
| meraki_switch_port_bandwidth_total_kbps | kbps | Total bandwidth usage on switch port (uplink ports and AP-connected ports) |
| meraki_switch_port_bandwidth_upstream_kbps | kbps | Upstream bandwidth usage on switch port (uplink ports and AP-connected ports) |
| meraki_switch_port_bandwidth_downstream_kbps | kbps | Downstream bandwidth usage on switch port (uplink ports and AP-connected ports) |connected ports) |
| meraki_wireless_usage_total_bytes | bytes | Total wireless data usage per AP |
| meraki_wireless_usage_sent_bytes | bytes | Wireless sent data usage per AP |
| meraki_wireless_usage_received_bytes | bytes | Wireless received data usage per AP |
| meraki_wireless_bandwidth_total_kbps | kbps | Total wireless bandwidth per AP |
| meraki_wireless_bandwidth_sent_kbps | kbps | Wireless sent bandwidth per AP |
| meraki_wireless_bandwidth_received_kbps | kbps | Wireless received bandwidth per AP |
| meraki_wireless_client_count | int | Number of clients connected to wireless access point |
<<<<<<< HEAD
<<<<<<< HEAD
| meraki_wireless_ap_cpu_load | percent | CPU average load percentage over 5 minutes of wireless access point |
| meraki_device_memory_used_percent | percent | Memory used percentage of the Meraki device |
=======
>>>>>>> 42a2188 (Add wireless count metric to the README)
=======
| meraki_wireless_ap_cpu_load | percent | CPU average load percentage over 5 minutes of wireless access point |
>>>>>>> 326f5a0 (Add CPU load metric for wireless access points and update README)
| request_processing_seconds | sec | Total processing time for all hosts, exported once |

### Labels
All metrics but __request_processing_seconds__ have the following labels:
| label | type | description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| name | string | Device name or MAC address if name is not defined |
| office | string | Network Name (or Network ID if name unavailable) |
| floor | string | Floor name (if device is associated with a floor plan) |
| product_type | string | Product type (e.g., 'wireless', 'switch', 'appliance') |

**meraki_device_uplink_status** also carries the "uplink" label containing the uplink name.

**meraki_switch_port_\*** metrics also carry the "portId" label containing the port ID. Note: Ports tagged with 'uplink' or connected to Meraki APs are exported.


### How to Use
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
You need to provide API Key from meraki portal as argument when starting exporter.<br>
**DO NOT USE KEYS WITH FULL ADMIN PRIVILEGES**<br>
Exporter is listening on port 9822 on all interfaces by default

```
  -h, --help     show this help message and exit
  -k API_KEY     API Key (Required, can also be specified using `MERAKI_API_KEY` environment variable)
  -p http_port   HTTP port to listen for Prometheus scrapper, default 9822
  -i bind_to_ip  IP address where HTTP server will listen, default all interfaces
  --vpn          If set VPN connection statuses will be also collected
  --usage        If set extra usage statistics will be also collected
```
GET request for **/?target=\<Organization Id\>** returns data expected for Prometheus Exporter

GET request for **/organizations** returns YAML formatted list of Organisation Id API key has access to. You can use to automatically populate list of targets in Prometheus configuration.  
```
/usr/bin/curl --silent --output /etc/prometheus/meraki-targets.yml http:/127.0.0.1:9822/organizations
```

**prometheus.yml**
```
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: 'Meraki'
    scrape_interval: 120s
    scrape_timeout: 40s
    metrics_path: /
    file_sd_configs:
      - files:
        - /etc/prometheus/meraki-targets.yml
```
Please check **/systemd** folder for systemd services and timers configuration files, if your system uses it.

### Docker

There is a Docker image available at `ghcr.io/emeraude998/meraki-prometheus-exporter`. You can run the exporter with a command like:

`docker run -p 9822:9822 -e MERAKI_API_KEY=<api key> ghcr.io/emeraude998/meraki-prometheus-exporter`

If you want to pass through flags, you can do so like this:

`docker run -p 9822:<port> ghcr.io/emeraude998/meraki-prometheus-exporter -k <api key> -p <port> --vpn`
